#	How to insert data using INSERT INTO DML Statement

-	Insert is a DML statement which helps in inserting one or more new rows of data in a database table.
-	You can use INSERT statement in 2 ways.

	-	1.	When you want to insert data only into some specific column table
			
			INSERT INTO   table_name   (col1, col2…)   VALUES   (val1, val2…);


	-	2.	When you want to insert data into all the columns of your table.
			
			INSERT INTO   table_name   VALUES   (val1, val2…);

## There are a few things which you should keep in mind before writing INSERT-INTO Query.

-	Insert-Into statement inserts only one row at a time.
-	All the column names and their corresponding values should be separated by using commas (,).
-	Character and date values must be enclosed in single quotation marks.
-	When inserting records into a table using the SQL INSERT statement, you must provide a value for every NOT NULL column.
-	You can omit a column from the SQL INSERT statement if that column allows NULL values.
-	If you are specifying column names in the query then the order in which the values are being specified must be the same. On the contrary, if you are not specifying the column names even then your order of values should match with the order of the columns in your table.

##	Query1: INSERT DATA into all the columns of table ‘student’ (Syntax 2).

	INSERT INTO   student   VALUES   (1,’Iron’,’Man’, 12345);


##	Query 2: Insert Data into selected column of a table (Syntax 1)
	
	INSERT INTO   student   (stu_id,first_name,last_name)   VALUES   (2,’Super’,’Man’);
	
	