#	PostgreSQL Data Types


-	PostgreSQL offers a rich set of native data types for users.
-	Users can add new types with the help of CREATE TYPE command.
- 	It also makes queries simpler and more readable

##	Character Datatypes

-	PostgreSQL supports character data types for storing text values
-	PostgreSQL offers three character data types: CHAR(n), VARCHAR(n), and TEXT.

-	varchar(n):	Allows you to declare variable-length with a limit
-	Char(n):	Fixed-length, blank padded
-	Text:	Use can use this data type to declare a variable with unlimited length


##	Numeric Datatypes

-	PostgreSQL supports two distinct types of numbers:

	-	Integers
	-	Floating-point numbers
	

##	Binary Data Types

-	A binary string is a sequence of octets or bytes. Binary Data types are divided in two ways.

	-	Binary strings allow storing odds of value zero
	-	Non- printable octets	

##	Network Address Type

-	cider
-	Inet
-	macaddr

##	Text Search Type

-	PostgreSQL provides two data types which are designed to support full-text search
-	Full-text search is searching through a collection of natural-language documents to search those that best match a query	


##	Date/Time Datatypes


-	PostgreSQL timestamp offers microsecond precision instead of second precision.
-	 Moreover, you also have the option of storing with timezone or without. 
-	PostgreSQL will convert timestamp with timezone to UTC on input and store it.


##	Boolean Type

-	A Boolean data type can hold

		-	True
		-	False
		-	null
				values.
				

##	Enumerated Types


-	Enumerated Data types in PostgreSQL is useful for representing rarely changing information such as country code or branch id.
-	The Enumerated data type is represented in a table with foreign keys to ensure data integrity.				


	Example:

		CREATE TYPE hair_color AS ENUM
		('brown','black','red','grey','blond')
		
##	XML type

-	PostgreSQL allows you to store XML data in a data type, but it is nothing more than an extension to a text data type.
-	But the advantage is that it checks that the input XML is well-formed.		

	Example:

		XMLPARSE (DOCUMENT '<?xml version="1.0"?><tutorial><chapter>Data Type</chapter><chapter>...</chapter></tutorial>')	
		
		
##	JSON Type

-	To store JSON data PostgreSQL offers 2 data types

	-	JSON
	-	JSONB		
	
-	json

	-	A simple extension of a text data type with JSON validation	
	-	Insert is fast but data retrieval relatively slow.	
	-	Saves inputted data exactly the way it is including whitespace.	
	-	Reprocessing on data retrieval	
	
	
-	Jsonb
	
	-	A binary representation of the JSON data
	-	Insert is slow but select (data retrieval is fast)
	-	Supports indexing. May optimize the whitespace to make retrieval faster.
	-	No reprocessing required on data retrieval
		
		CREATE TABLE employee (
		  id integer NOT NULL,
		  age  integer NOT NULL,
		  data jsonb
		);
	
		INSERT INTO employee VALUES (1, 35, '{"name": "Tom Price", "tags": ["Motivated", "SelfLearner"], "onboareded": true}'); 



##	Pseudo-Types


-	PostgreSQL has many special-purpose entries that are called pseudo-types. 
-	You can't use pseudo-type as a column data type. There are used to declare or function's argument or return type.

##	Best practices using Data types

-	Use "text" data type unless you want to limit the input
-	Never use "char."
-	Integers use "int." Use bigint only when you have really big numbers
-	Use "numeric" almost always
-	Use float data type if you have IEEE 754 data source





























