# Primary Key Constraint In Oracle Database


## How to Create a Constraint in Oracle Database

-	Constraints can be defined in two ways:
	-	Using CREATE TABLE statement: While table creation time
	-	Using ALTER TABLE statement
	
## How to define a constraints on the tables

-	Constraints in RDBMS can be defined at Column level, Table Level

##	How to Define Primary Key Constraint

-	Definition :
	-	Primary key constraint is an Input/output Data constraint which serves the purpose of uniquely identifying the rows in a table.


### What is a Primary Key Constraint?

-	Primary key constraint is the combination of NOT NULL and UNIQUE constraints. 
-	In a more proper manner you can define a primary key constraint as an Input/output Data constraint which serves the purpose of uniquely identifying the rows in a table.	


### Types of Primary Keys

-	There are two types of Primary keys:

	-	Simple Primary Key and
	-	Composite Primary Key
	
### Simple Primary Key

-	A primary key constraint that is defined using only one column of a table in the database is called Simple Primary Key Constraint.


### Composite Primary Keys

-	A primary key constraint that is defined using more than one column of a table in the database is called Composite Primary key constraint.

-	Primary key has a single function of identifying a unique row in the table. 
-	In case the simple primary key fails to identify that unique row, the user must then define a composite primary key.
- 	There are some restrictions on composite primary key:
	-	for example a composite primary key can be defined using up to 32 columns of a table in oracle database.	
	
###	How to ensure the uniqueness of a primary key constraint? 

-	Oracle automatically creates a unique index on the column so that the requirement of the uniqueness of the PRIMARY KEY constraint is fulfilled.



### How to Create a Primary Key Constraint in Oracle Database
-	Primary key constraint can be defined in two ways:

	-	Using CREATE TABLE statement and
	-	Using ALTER TABLE statement
	
-	You can define a primary key constraint either during the creation of a table using CREATE TABLE statement 
-	After creating a table using ALTER TABLE statement
	
	-	CREATE TABLE
		-	If you choose to define a primary key using CREATE TABLE statement 
		-	then you have two different levels at which you have to define a primary key:
			-	At Column Level
			-	At Table Level
			
----------------------------------------------------
### Defining Primary Key Using CREATE TABLE

	#### Define Primary key at Column Level
	
	-	In the create table statement you define any column as a primary key column just by putting reserved phrase “Primary key” right after defining the column. 
	-	This means you have to put reserved phrase “Primary Key” after data type and size in column definition
		
		Example 1: Primary Key at Column Level:
		
			CREATE TABLE product_master
			 (
			  Product_id  NUMBER(3)  PRIMARY KEY,
			  Product_name  VARCHAR2(30),
			  Product_price  NUMBER(5)
			 );	


	-	It is always a good practice to give a unique and meaningful name to your primary key constraint every time you create it.
	-	This will make the managing of your constraint much easier.
	
	#### How to Name Your Constraint in Oracle Database?
	
	-	In case you do not provide a meaningful name to your constraint then the oracle database server gives it a default name automatically. 
	-	If you have several constraints on your table then using this default name makes it very difficult to find a specific constraint.
	
	-	You can use keyword “CONSTRAINT” to give your constraint a meaningful name. 
	
	Example 2: How to name a primary key constraint
	
	
		CREATE TABLE product_master 
		(
			product_id NUMBER(10) CONSTRAINT prdmstr_pid_pk PRIMARY KEY,
			product_name varchar2(10),
			product_price NUMBER(10)
		
		);

	-	That is how we define a primary key constraint at column level using Create Table Statement in Oracle database.
	
	
	#### Define Primary key at Table Level
	
	-	Defining the primary key constraint at table level is one of best ways as it helps  to manage all  constraints specially when dealing with a huge line of code.
	-	Defining a constraint at table level separates the column definition from the constraint definition.
	-	In this way you first define all the columns of a table and then you define all your constraints in the Create Table Statement. -	For Example:
	
		Example 3: Primary Key Constraint at Table Level:
				
			CREATE TABLE product_master
			 (
			  Product_id  NUMBER(3), 
			  Product_name  VARCHAR2(30),
			  Product_price  NUMBER(5),
			  CONSTRAINT promstr_col1_pid_pk PRIMARY KEY (product_id)
			  );	

	#### How to Define Primary Key Using ALTER TABLE statement?
	
	-	You can use ALTER TABLE statement to add the constraint in an already created table or to change the definition of already defined constraint in the table.

	Example 4:
	
		ALTER  TABLE  customer  ADD  CONSTRAINT  cust_cid_pk  PRIMARY  KEY  (cust_id);

	-	That is how we use ALTER TABLE statement to add a primary key constraint in an already created table.


--------------------------------------------------------
### How to Define a Composite Primary Key Constraint?


-	The primary key defined using more than one column is called a composite primary key

		Example 5: Composite Primary Key:
		
			CREATE TABLE customer
			 (
			  cust_id NUMBER(3),
			  cust_name VARCHAR2(3),
			  phone_no NUMBER(10),
			  CONSTRAINT cust_cid_pk PRIMARY KEY ( cust_id, phone_no)
			 );

		Example 6: Composite Primary Key Using ALTER TABLE
		
			ALTER TABLE customer ADD CONSTRAINT cust_cid_pk PRIMARY KEY (cust_id,phone_number);

	
### How To Enable and Disable a Primary Key Constraint?

-	What is the requirement of giving a name to a constraint then here is the answer. 
-	Modifying a constraint becomes easier if your constraint has a unique and meaningful name. 
-	If you do not provide a name to your constraint then oracle server gives a default name to it which is quite generic and it becomes difficult to find a specific constraint using that name.

	Example 7: Enable or Disable primary key:
	
		ALTER TABLE customer DISABLE CONSTRAINT cust_cid_pk;

		ALTER TABLE customer ENABLE CONSTRAINT cust_cid_pk;

### How to Check Constraint on a Table

-	DESC statement shows nothing about constraints on a table
-	But Oracle Database provides us several DATA DICTIONARIES for checking or describing all the constraints which we have defined on our table
-	These Data Dictionaries are:

	-	USER_CONSTRAINTS
	-	USER_CONS_COLUMNS
	
-	Here USER_CONSTRAINTS gives a brief about the constraint on a table. 
-	USER_CONS_COLUMNS is a Data Dictionary which holds detailed information about columns of a table	


		USER_CONSTRAINTS:

			SELECT
			  CONSTRAINT_NAME,
			  CONSTRAINT_TYPE,
			  TABLE_NAME,
			  STATUS,
			  INDEX_NAME
			 FROM user_CONSTRAINTS WHERE table_name = ‘CUSTOMER’;

		USER_CONS_COLUMNS:

			SELECT 
			  CONSTRAINT_NAME,
			  TABLE_NAME,
			  COLUMN_NAME,
			  POSITION
			 FROM user_cons_columns WHERE table_name = ‘CUSTOMER’;


	

### Restrictions on a primary key constraint

-	You cannot delete a Primary key if it is referenced by a foreign key in some other table.
-	A table can have only One Primary key no matter whether it’s Simple Primary Key Or Composite Primary Key.
-	Columns which are participating in Primary Key cannot have NULL values. This means you cannot leave them unattended or you cannot put NULL value into them.

-	As primary key is all about row or record’s uniqueness thus it will not allow duplicate values.
-	When a Primary Key constraint has been defined on multiple columns then its values can be duplicated provided the duplication is happening within one single column. However the combination of values of all the columns defining each primary key constraint should be unique.
-	A composite primary key can have maximum of 32 columns
-	Unique cluster Index gets created automatically at the time of creating Primary key.

