#	On Delete Set Null Clause Of Foreign Key

-	The foreign key is defined in the child table and the parent table contains the reference column.
- 	However because of this link we cannot update or delete the rows of the parent table.


## So, what is special about foreign key which won’t let us Delete or Update the records of the parent table?

-	When you define a simple foreign key, the Oracle engine is by default set to ON DELETE NO ACTION clause
-	This means that you are allowed to update the rows in the parent table however you cannot delete rows from the parent table.
-	This default behavior is called Restrict rule. 
-	This rule doesn’t allow users to delete or update reference data in the parent table.

## Does that mean we cannot update or delete the records of parent table if we have a foreign key constraint defined on it?

-	Definitely not.
-	 You can easily override this restrict rule and change the default behavior 
-	By changing the foreign key either to SET NULL or to DELETE CASCADE

## So how can we change the default behavior of foreign key?

-	In Oracle Database you get two referential actions to override the restrict rule and change the default behavior of foreign key.
-	These two referential actions are –

	-	ON DELETE SET NULL and
	-	ON DELETE CASCADE	
	
##	What is ON DELETE SET NULL clause of the foreign key constraint?

-	On Delete Set Null clause sets all the records of the column which is defined as a foreign key in the child table to Null if the corresponding record in the parent table is deleted.

##	Can you demonstrate us how to define an “On Delete Set Null” clause with foreign key?

	Query:
		
		CREATE TABLE author
			 (   author_id  NUMBER(3)  CONSTRAINT  athr_aid_pk  PRIMARY KEY, author_name  VARCHAR2(30)  );
	
	
		CREATE TABLE books
		 (
		  book_id  NUMBER(3),
		  book_title  VARCHAR2(30),
		  book_price  NUMBER(3),
		  book_author_id  NUMBER(3)  CONSTRAINT  bok_ai_fk  REFERENCES  author(author_id)  ON DELETE SET NULL
		 );
		
		
## Is there any way to confirm that the foreign key is defined with on delete set null clause this time?

-	Yes, you can check this constraint by executing the query on – USER_CONSTRAINTS data dictionary.

	Query:
	
			SELECT
			constraint_name, delete_rule
			FROM user_constraints
			WHERE table_name = ‘BOOKS’ ;		
			
			
			