#	Simple Case Expression In Oracle Database


-	Simple Case Expression
	-	Using Case expression you can achieve the IF-THEN-ELSE logic in Oracle SQL that too without invoking any kind of SQL procedures
	-	CASE expression can do all the work of a DECODE expression. Several books recommend using CASE over DECODE because 

		-	CASE expressions are easier to read in comparison to DECODE expression and
		-	CASE expression is ANSI-compliant and forms part of the SQL/92 standard
		
-	In Oracle there are two types of CASE expressions 

	-	Simple case expressions
	-	Searched case expressions		
	
-	Simple Case Expression

		The syntax of “Simple Case Expression” is :

			CASE search_expression
				WHEN   input_expression 1   THEN   output_result 1
				WHEN   input_expression 2   THEN   output_result 2
				…
				WHEN   input_expression N   THEN   output_result N
				ELSE    Else_result
			END	
			
		Where

			-	Search_Expression is the expression to be evaluated.
			-	Input_Expressions are the expressions to be evaluated against search_expression.
			-	Output_Results are the returned results (one for each possible expression). If expression1 evaluates to search_expression, result1 is returned, and similarly for the other expressions.
			-	Else_Result is returned when no matching expression is found.				
			
	-	The maximum number of arguments in a CASE expression is 255		
	-	The data type of all the input expressions must match with the data type of search expression.
		-	Means data type of search expression and input expression must be the same.
	-	The datatype of all the output results must match with Else result means the data type of output result along with else result must be the same.
	
##	Query 1: Column Name as Search Expression

	Query:
	
		SELECT first_name,department_id,
		(CASE    department_id
		WHEN    10    THEN    ‘Administration’
		WHEN    20    THEN    ‘Marketing’
		WHEN    30    THEN    ‘Purchasing’
		WHEN    40    THEN    ‘Shipping’
		WHEN    50    THEN    ‘Shipping’
		ELSE    ‘Sorry’
		END)    Departments
		FROM    employees
		WHERE    department_id    BETWEEN 10 AND 50
		ORDER BY 2;

## 	Query 2: String as Search Expression

		SELECT
			CASE ‘Dog’
			WHEN    ‘Cat’    THEN    ‘1 Flase’
			WHEN    ‘Dog’    THEN    ‘2 True’
			WHEN    ‘Cow’    THEN    ‘3 False’
			WHEN    ‘Dog’    THEN    ‘4 True’
			ELSE    ‘Sorry’
			END
		AS Dog		
		FROM    dual;'
		
		
		
		
		

		
		
		
		
		
		
		


