#	How to Delete Data From Table Using SQL Delete & Truncate Command


-	Among several different ways of deleting data from a table the two most used ways :
	-	SQL Delete and Truncate command. 
	-	Although both perform the same task yet they are still different.
-	SQL Delete and truncate command as well as the various differences between them.
-	SQL Delete is a DML command which removes entire rows of data from a specified table or view.
		
		
		DELETE FROM  table_name  WHERE  condition;

-	Query 1 : Let’s say you want to delete only those rows from employees table of HR schema where job id is ST_CLERK


		DELETE FROM  employees  WHERE  job_id = ‘ST_CLERK’;

-	Query 2:	Now, what if, you want to delete all the rows from the employees table? For that we just need to do a slight modification in the above query.

		DELETE FROM employees;


##	There are a few things which you should know about SQL DELETE command:

-	DELETE is a DML command.
-	Accidentally deleted some data then there are still chances that you can get it back by performing ROLLBACK command. 
-	Roll back will not work if you have already performed the ‘commit’.		
-	DELETE checks all the constraints on all the columns of the rows which are getting deleted before deleting the rows and accordingly sets the Index.
-	Whenever you perform DELETE operation all the triggers associated with DELETE command gets executed.


##	SQL Truncate Command

-	Truncate command deletes all the rows from a table.
-	For example say you want to delete all the rows from countries table of HR schema. The syntax for that will be
	
	Query:
	
		TRUNCATE TABLE countries;

		
-	Truncate is a DDL command
-	You cannot roll back a TRUNCATE statement
-	You cannot use WHERE clause with TRUNCATE statement. 
	-	This means that unlike SQL DELETE there are no options for conditional delete
-	Unlike SQL delete when you perform Truncate no trigger gets executed
-	Truncate doesn’t use much UNDO space as SQL Delete
-	Truncate is significantly faster than the SQL Delete.
	-	This is because when you use DELETE, all the data first gets copied onto the Undo Tablespace after which the delete operation is performed. 
	-	That’s why when you type ROLLBACK after deleting a table; you can get back the data.
	-	All this process takes time. But when you type TRUNCATE, it removes data directly without copying it onto the Rollback Tablespace. 
	-	That’s why TRUNCATE is faster. Once you truncate you can’t get back the data


	
		

	