#	What Is SQL Sequence In Oracle Database
-	A Sequence is a database object which generates integer sequence. We generally use it for populating numeric Primary Key columns
-	In order to create a sequence we use create sequence DDL statement
	
	CREATE SEQUENCE sequence_name
	 [START WITH start_num]
	 [INCREMENT BY increment_num]
	 [MAXVALUE maximum_num | NOMAXVALUE]
	 [MINVALUE minimum_num | NOMINVALUE]
	 [CACHE cache_num | NOCACHE]
	 [CYCLE | NOCYCLE]
	 [ORDER | NOORDER];	
	
	
-	Create Sequence DDL statement starts with CREATE and SEQUENCE

-	START WITH

	-	have to specify a numeric value from which you want your sequence to start
	-	Whatever number you specify will be the first number generated by your sequence

-	INCREMENT BY
	-	This attribute also takes a numeric value, to increment the sequence by. 
	-	The number that you specify here will serve as the interval between sequence numbers.
	-	The value for INCREMENT BY cannot be 0 but it can be any positive or negative value
	
-	MAXVALUE / NOMAXVALUE
	-	Next attribute is MAXVALUE or NOMAXVALUE. Using these attributes you can set the maximum upper bound for your sequence
	
-	MINVALUE / NOMINVALUE

	-	Similar to MAXVALUE we use MINVALUE attribute to set the lower bound of our sequence

-	CYCLE/NOCYCLE
	-	CYCLE and NOCYCLE are two flags which you have to set.
	-	If you set the flag on cycle then your sequence continues to generate values after reaching either its maximum or minimum value

-	CACHE/ NOCACHE
	-	As the value of cache attribute, you specify the number of integers to keep in memory. 
	-	The default number of integers to cache is 20.

-	ORDER/ NOORDER
	-	At last we have two more flags which are ORDER and NOORDER.
	-	ORDER Flag guarantees that sequence numbers are generated in order of request
	
	
##	How to Create a Sequence


		CREATE SEQUENCE sq_demo1
		 START WITH 1
		 INCREMENT BY 2
		 MAXVALUE 10 
		 MINVALUE 1
		 CACHE 3
		 CYCLE 
		 ORDER;
		
-	All these attributes and flags are optional. If you omit all of them then oracle engine will create a default sequence for you
		
		CREATE SEQUENCE sq_demo02;


##	How To Use A Sequence
-	To use a sequence we use NEXTVAL and CURRVAL. 
-	Both these are pseudo columns of a sequence using which we can retrieve next value and current value of a sequence. 
-	NEXTVAL column returns the next value of the sequence as well as initializes the sequence whereas CURRVAL column will return the current value of the sequence


	SELECT sq_demo.NEXTVAL FROM dual;

	SELECT sq_demo.CURRVAL FROM dual;

##	How To Populate Numeric Primary key column using a Sequence
	
	INSERT INTO demo VALUES (sq_demo.nextval, ‘xyz’);

##	How To Modify A Sequence


-	You can modify a sequence using the ALTER SEQUENCE statement. 
-	There are some limitations on what you can modify in a sequence such as:

	-	You cannot change the start value of a sequence.
	-	The minimum value cannot be more than the current value of the sequence.
	-	The maximum value cannot be less than the current value of the sequence.
	-	Suppose you want to modify the value of INCREMENT BY attribute from 2 to 4, so for that ALTER SEQUENCE command will be:

	SQL>ALTER SEQUENCE sq_demo INCREMENT BY 4;

##	How To Drop A Sequence

-	To delete any sequence from the schema we use DROP DDL statement

	SQL>DROP SEQUENCE sq_demo;

