#	Natural Join In SQL



-	A NATURAL JOIN is a JOIN operation that creates an implicit join clause for you based on the common columns of the two tables that are being joined. 
-	Common columns are columns that have the same name in both the tables. 
-	A NATURAL JOIN can be an INNER join, a LEFT OUTER join, or a RIGHT OUTER join.
-	However the INNER join is the default one. 


## Terminologies

-	Source table: The table which comes after FROM clause in the select statement. 
-	Target table: All the tables that come after JOIN clause in the query.

-	When the join query is executed then the oracle starts matching the data from the source table to the target table.
-	If there is a hit for a matching source table data in the target table then the value is returned. 

## Examples of Natural Joins in Oracle Database

	###	Scenario 1: When there is only one identical name column between source and target tables. 

		-	Department table has 4 columns – DEPARTMENT_ID, DEPARTMENT_NAME, MANAGER_ID, LOCATION_ID
		-	And Locations table has 6 columns – LOCATION_ID, STREET ADDRESS, POSTAL CODE, CITY, STATE PROVINCE AND COUNTRY_ID

		Natural Join Query to find the City for all your Departments:
		
			SELECT   department_name, city   FROM   departments   NATURAL JOIN   locations;


		-	The best part of using Natural join is that you do not need to specify the join column 
		-	Because column with the same name in source and target tables are automatically associated with each other. 
		-	On executing this query oracle returns all the rows from department column of departments table and from city column of locations table, where location id of departments table is equal to the location id of location table. 
	
	
	###	Scenario 2: What if when our source and target tables have more than one identical name column.

	-	To demonstrate this scenario we will use employees and departments table. 
	-	These two tables share two common columns which are the department id and the manager id.
	-	Here if we put Natural join on these two tables then oracle engine will use these two common columns to return the result.
	-	Say we want to see the name of an employee and the name of the department in which he or she works. 
	-	For that we will first select a name from the employee table which is our source table and the department’s name from departments table.
		
		Query of Natural Join for Table with more than one common column:
		
			SELECT employee_name, department_name FROM employees NATURAL JOIN departments;

	###	Scenario 3	: Using ON clause
	
	-	ON Clause is used to explicitly specify the names of the columns in the JOIN clause
	-	We may have 10's of common columns, but want to use the specif ones then JOIN with ON  Clause will be useful
	
	
		Query with ON Clause:
		
		
			SELECT   
				first_name,department_name
			FROM   
				employees  
			JOIN   
				departments  
			ON   (employees.manager_id = departments.manager_id   AND   employees.department_id = departments. department_id);


	-	Here is a slight change in the natural join syntax as we are using ON clause this time.
	-	So instead of writing natural join we will only write JOIN.
	-	Both these queries produce the same results as both are the same queries just written in a different way.
	
		
	### Scenario 4: Natural join with USING clause
	
	-	Using clause is used to get the values from single common column
		

		Query:
		
			SELECT   
				first_name, department_name  
			FROM   employees    
			NATURAL JOIN   departments;


	-	What if you want to use only department id in your natural join instead of both manager id and department id? 
		-	In this situation we use natural join with USING clause. 
		
		Query:
		
			SELECT   first_name,department_name   FROM   employees   JOIN   departments   USING(manager_id);
			
			


	
	
	






