# What Is Right Outer Join In SQL

-	As the name suggests Right Outer Join is a form of Outer Join that returns each and every record from the source table and returns only those values from the target table that fulfil the Join condition.
-	The Source table is the one situated on the right side of the Right Outer Join Clause whereas The Target table is the one on the left side of this clause.

	Query:
	
		SELECT 
			columns 
		FROM 
			target_table RIGHT OUTER JOIN source_table 
		ON	(source_table.column = target_table.column)
		WHERE condition
		ORDER BY column_names;

## Outer Joins

-	Outer Join returns all the rows from source table and only rows from the target table that matches the join condition

	

## Query 1: Right Outer Join with ‘ON’ clause	

-	when should we use ON Join Condition in SQL Joins you ask?
-	When columns which are participating in ON join condition have Different name and Same Data type or
-	When columns which are participating in ON join condition have SAME NAME and SAME Data-type.
		
		Query:
		
			SELECT 
			emp_name,dept_name
			FROM dept RIGHT OUTER JOIN emp
			ON (emp.EMP_ID = dept.EMP_ID);
		
-	If you execute this query you will get all the rows of emp_name column of emp table as emp is the source table and only those rows of dept_name column of dept table which satisfy the join condition (condition in ON clause).

## Query 2: Right Outer Join with WHERE clause

-	You can use WHERE clause with any type of JOIN and limit or Filter the result
- 	In case of JOINS, WHERE clause always comes after Join Condition (ON or USING). 
-	Say you want to see employees name and department name whose salary is less than 50,000. 	
	
		
		Query:
		
			SELECT emp_name,dept_name 
			FROM dept RIGHT OUTER JOIN emp 
			ON (emp.EMP_ID = dept.EMP_ID) WHERE emp_salary < 50000; 
		
		
		
## 	Query 3: Right Outer Join with USING clause

-	Using clause can be used in the place of ON clause when
-	We are performing Equi Join.


		SELECT emp_name,dept_name FROM dept RIGHT OUTER JOIN emp USING (emp_id);

		
		

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		