#	Introduction To Tablespace In Oracle Database


-	Oracle database stores schema objects such as tables, indexes, Views etc. logically into the tablespace and physically in datafiles associated with the corresponding tablespace. 
-	So we can say that Tablespaces are logical storage units made up of one or more datafiles.


## Datafiles

-	Datafiles are physical files stored on your disk created by Oracle database and has .dbf extension
-	These files are not only capable of storing tables but also indexes, synonyms, views and other schema objects created by you
-	These are physical files because they have existence on your OS’s file system and you can see them
-	These files are written by database writer (DBWR) processes and used by Oracle database for the proper functioning of your database system

##	Tablespaces

-	Tablespaces are the logical entity in our database and logically organized data which is physically stored in datafiles
-	They are called logical storage units because they are not visible in the OS’s file system	
-	A tablespace belongs to only one database and has at least one datafile that is used to store data for the associated tablespace
-	We can also define tablespaces as logical storage units made up of one or more datafiles. 
-	One tablespace can have up to 1022 datafiles.
-	This number also depends upon your OS.


## 	Types of Tablespaces in Oracle Database

-	We can differentiate tablespaces on the basis of two factors:

	-	Type of Data
	-	Size of Data

-	Type of data consists of 3 kinds of tablespace including: 

	-	Permanent Tablespace
	-	Temporary Tablespace
	-	Undo Tablespace
	
##	And on the basis of Size of Data we have 2 kinds of tablespace:

- 	Big file tablespace
-	Small file tablespace


##	Permanent Tablespace In Oracle Database

-	It is the tablespace which contains persistent schema object which means the data stored in the permanent tablespace persists beyond the duration of a session or transaction. 
-	Objects in permanent tablespaces are stored in datafiles.

##	Temporary tablespace In Oracle Database

-	Temporary tablespaces are the ones which contain schema objects only for the duration of a session which means that data stored in the temporary tablespace exists only for the duration of a session or a transaction. 
-	Objects in temporary tablespaces are stored in tempfiles


##	Undo Tablespace In Oracle Database

-	Undo tablespace is a special type of tablespace used by Oracle database to manage undo data if you are running your database in automatic undo management mode
-	Undo tablespace stores data permanently which means that undo tablespace are permanent in nature. 
-	Undo tablespace play a vital role in providing:

	-	Read consistency for SELECT statements
	-	The ability to rollback a transaction that has failed to commit
	
##	Big-File tablespace In Oracle Database

-	Big file tablespace is best suited for storing large amounts of data
-	Big file tablespace can have a maximum of 1 datafile which means bigfile tablespaces are built on single data files which can be as big as 232 data blocks in size

##	Small-File tablespace In Oracle Database

-	This is the default type of tablespace in Oracle database. 
-	Small file tablespace can have multiple datafiles and each datafile can be as much as 222 data blocks in size.
-	A small file tablespace can have maximum up to 1022 data files but this number depends on your Operating system also	

##	Interview Questions
Q: What are the default tablespaces in Oracle Database?

-	The SYSTEM and SYSAUX tablespaces are always created when the database is created
-	One or more temporary tablespaces are usually created in a database along with an undo tablespace and several application tablespaces
-	Because SYSTEM and SYSAUX are the only tablespaces always created with the database, they are the default tablespaces

Q: What type of tablespace do SYSTEM and SYSAUX belong to?
-	SYSTEM and SYSAUX are always created as SMALLFILE tablespace



	
