# SQL Query Interview Questions

##	1.How to display 1 to 100 Numbers with query?

	Select level from dual connect by level <=100;



##	3.How to find count of duplicate rows? (95% asked in SQL queries for Interviews )

	Query:
	
		Select rollno, count (rollno) from Student
		Group by rollno
		Having count (rollno)>1
		Order by count (rollno) desc;

##	4.How to find Third highest salary in Employee table using self-join?(90% asked Complex SQL Interview Questions )

	Query:
	
		Select * from Employee a Where 3 = (Select Count (distinct Salary) from Employee where a.salary<=b.salary;

##	5.How to Show the Max marks and min marks together from student table?

	Query:
	
		Select max (marks) from Student
		Union
		Select min (marks) from Student;


##	6.How to display following using query?
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT LPAD(*,ROWNUM,*) FROM qrtz_job WHERE ROWNUM < 4;
		
		
##	7.How to display Date in DD-MON-YYYY table?

		Select to_date (Hire_date,’DD-MON-YYYY’) Date_Format from Employee;

##	8.If marks column contain the comma separated values from Student table. How to calculate the count of that comma separated values?

-	 In real scenarios, lot of times developer needs to calculate the number of commas in the column then regexp_count function is used
		
		Student Name	Marks
			Amit	30,130,20,4
			Sukruta	100,20,30
			Sonali	140,10
		
-	Want to display output like :

		Student Name	Marks Count
		Amit	4
		Sukruta	3
		Sonali	2
		
	Query:
	
		Select Student_name, regexp_count (marks,’,’) + As “Marks Count” from Student;

##	9.How to create the Student_1 table, which is exact replica of Student table?

		Create Table Student_1 as select * from Student;

##	10.What is Query to drop all user tables from Oracle?

	Query:
	
		To Drop all tables user needs to write simple PLSQL block

		Begin
		For i In
		(Select * from Tabs)    —Tabs is system table in which user get the different user defined table names.
		Loop
		Execute immediate (‘Drop Table  ‘||i.table_name||’cascade constraints’);
		End loop;
		End;


##	11.How to get number of Weekends of current month?

	Query:
	
		SELECT count (*) AS Weekends FROM
		(SELECT TRUNC (SYSDATE,’mm’) +LEVEL-1 Current_dt
		FROM Dual
		CONNECT BY LEVEL <= last_day (SYSDATE) – TRUNC (SYSDATE,’mm’) +1
		)
		Where TO_CHAR (Current_dt,’dy’) IN (‘sat’,’sun’);

-	Step 1:  Try running internal query
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT TRUNC (SYSDATE,’mm’) +LEVEL-1 Current_dt
		FROM Dual
		CONNECT BY LEVEL <= last_day (SYSDATE) – TRUNC (SYSDATE,’mm’) +1;

	-	The query will give the all the dates from first to last of current date.

-	Step 2: To count the weekends.

	-	From all the month, we need to calculate the weekends. Weekends means the Saturdays and Sundays from the month. 
	-	So here, we need to use To_char function and ‘dy’ attribute of that function to calculate days. 
	-	Therefore, we have used Where TO_CHAR (Current_dt,’dy’) IN (‘sat’,’sun’); condition.

-	Therefore, Final Query will be,
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT count(*) AS Weekends FROM
		(SELECT TRUNC (SYSDATE,’mm’) +LEVEL-1 Current_dt
		FROM Dual
		CONNECT BY LEVEL <= last_day (SYSDATE) – TRUNC (SYSDATE,’mm’) +1
		)
		Where TO_CHAR (Current_dt,’dy’) IN (‘sat’,’sun’);

		
##	12.What is query to fetch last day of previous month in oracle?

	Query:
	
		Select LAST_DAY (ADD_MONTHS (SYSDATE,-1)) from dual;


##	13.How to display the String vertically in Oracle?

	Query:
	
		SELECT SUBSTR (‘AMIET’, LEVEL, 1) FROM dual
		Connect by level <= length (‘AMIET’);


##	14.Write query to find the repeated characters from your name?

	Query:
		
		Select regexp_count ('AmitA','A') as Repeated_character from dual;
		
##	15.How to display departmentwise and monthwise maximum salary?

		Select Department_no, TO_CHAR (Hire_date,’Mon’) 
			as Month from Employee group by Department_no, TO_CHAR (Hire_date,’mon’);	


##	16.How to get DDL of table in Oracle?

	Select dbms_metadata.get_ddl (TABLE,’table_name’) from dual;

##	17.How to convert seconds in to time format?

	Query:
	
		SELECT
		TO_CHAR (TRUNC (2700/3600),’FM9900′) || ‘:’ ||
		TO_CHAR (TRUNC (MOD (2700, 3600)/60),’FM00′) || ‘:’ ||
		TO_CHAR (MOD (2700, 60),’FM00′)
		FROM DUAL;
		
##	18.How to calculate number of rows in table without using count function?

		Select table_name, num_rows from user_tables where table_name=’Employee’;


		
##	20.Display 4 to 7 records from Employee table.
	
	Query:
	
		Select * from (Select rownum as ‘No_of_Row’, E.* from Employee E)
		Where No_of_Row between 4 and 7;

##	19.How to fetch common records from two different tables which has not any joining condition.

	Query:
	
		Select * from Table1
		Intersect
		Select * from Table2;

