# SQL Interview Questions - Theory Part 1

##	Q1. What is the difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE statements?



- 	DELETE
	-	Delete command is used to delete a row in a table.	
	-	You can rollback data after using delete statement.	
	-	It is a DML command.	
	-	It is slower than truncate statement.	
	
-	TRUNCATE
	-	Truncate is used to delete all the rows from a table.
	-	You cannot rollback data.
	-	It is a DDL command.
	-	It is faster.
	
##	Q21. What is the difference between DROP and TRUNCATE commands?

-	DROP command removes a table and it cannot be rolled back from the database 
-	TRUNCATE command removes all the rows from the table

	

##	Q2. What are the different subsets of SQL?

-	DDL (Data Definition Language) – It allows you to perform various operations on the database such as CREATE, ALTER and DROP objects.
-	DML ( Data Manipulation Language) – It allows you to access and manipulate data. It helps you to insert, update, delete and retrieve data from the database.
-	DCL ( Data Control Language) – It allows you to control access to the database. Example – Grant, Revoke access permissions.

##	Q6. What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2 datatype in SQL?

-	Both Char and Varchar2 are used for characters datatype but varchar2 is used for character strings of variable length whereas Char is used for strings of fixed length
-	For CHAR SQL will allocate all the 10 bytes of memory
-	For Varchar2, SQL will allocate memory based on the length of the strings


##	Q16. What do you mean by Denormalization?

-	It's a technique that's used to access the data from higher to lower forms of database
-	It helps the database managers to increase the performance of the entire infrastructure as it introduces redundancy into a table.
-	It adds the redundant data into a table by incorporating database queries that combine data from various tables into a single table.


##	Q17. What are Entities and Relationships?
-	Entities are real world objects
-	Relationships are links or relation b/w them

##	Q18. What is an Index?

-	An index refers to a performance tuning method of allowing faster retrieval of records from the table.
-	An index creates an entry for each value and hence it will be faster to retrieve data.

##	Q19. Explain different types of index.
-	There are three types of index namely:

-	Unique Index:
	-	This index does not allow the field to have duplicate values if the column is unique indexed
	- 	If a primary key is defined, a unique index can be applied automatically

-	Clustered Index:
	-	This index reorders the physical order of the table and searches based on the basis of key values
	-	Each table can only have one clustered index

-	Non-Clustered Index:
	-	Non-Clustered Index does not alter the physical order of the table and maintains a logical order of the data
	-	Each table can have many nonclustered indexes

##	Q20. What is Normalization and what are the advantages of it?


-	Normalization is the process of organizing data to avoid duplication and redundancy. Some of the advantages are:

	-	Better Database organization
	-	Quickly find the information
	-	Ensure Consistent data after modification
	-	More Tables with smaller rows
	-	Efficient data access
	-	Greater Flexibility for Queries	
	-	Easier to implement Security
	-	Allows easy modification
	-	Reduction of redundant and duplicate data
	-	More Compact Database
	
	
##	Q23. What is ACID property in a database?

-	ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability. 
-	It is used to ensure that the data transactions are processed reliably in a database system. 

	-	Atomicity: Atomicity refers to the transactions that are completely done or failed where transaction refers to a single logical operation of a data. 
		-	It means if one part of any transaction fails, the entire transaction fails and the database state is left unchanged.

	-	Consistency: Consistency ensures that the data must meet all the validation rules.
		-	In simple words,  you can say that your transaction never leaves the database without completing its state.

	-	Isolation: The main goal of isolation is concurrency control.

	-	Durability: Durability means that if a transaction has been committed, it will occur whatever may come in between such as power loss, crash or any sort of error.

	
##	Q25. What are the different operators available in SQL?

-	Arithmetic Operators
-	Logical Operators
-	Comparison Operators	


##	Q27. What is the difference between cross join and natural join?

-	The cross join produces the cross product or Cartesian product of two tables 
-	The natural join is based on all the columns having the same name and data types in both the tables

##	Q28. What is subquery in SQL?

-	A subquery is a query inside another query where a query is defined to retrieve data or information back from the database.
-	In a subquery, the outer query is called as the main query whereas the inner query is called subquery.
-	Subqueries are always executed first and the result of the subquery is passed on to the main query.
- 	It can be nested inside a SELECT, UPDATE or any other query.
-	A subquery can also use any comparison operators such as >,< or =.

##	Q29. What are the different types of a subquery?

-	There are two types of subquery namely, Correlated and Non-Correlated.

-	Correlated subquery: 
	-	These are queries which select the data from a table referenced in the outer query. 
	-	It is not considered as an independent query as it refers to another table and refers the column in a table.

-	Non-Correlated subquery: 
	-	This query is an independent query where the output of subquery is substituted in the main query.

##	Q31. Write a SQL query to find the names of employees that begin with ‘A’?
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT * FROM Table_name WHERE EmpName like 'A%'
	
##	Q32. Write a SQL query to get the third highest salary of an employee from employee_table?
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT TOP 1 salary
		FROM(
			SELECT TOP 3 salary
			FROM employee_table
			ORDER BY salary DESC
		) AS emp
		ORDER BY salary ASC;
		
##	Q33. What is the need for group functions in SQL? 

-	Group functions work on the set of rows and returns one result per group.
-	Some of the commonly used group functions are: AVG, COUNT, MAX, MIN, SUM, VARIANCE.

##	Q35.  How can you insert NULL values in a column while inserting the data?

-	NULL values can be inserted in the following ways:

	-	Implicitly by omitting column from column list.
	-	Explicitly by specifying NULL keyword in the VALUES clause
	
##	Q36. What is the main difference between ‘BETWEEN’ and ‘IN’ condition operators?

-	BETWEEN operator is used to display rows based on a range of values in a row 
-	The IN condition operator is used to check for values contained in a specific set of values.

	Example of BETWEEN:
		SELECT * FROM Students where ROLL_NO BETWEEN 10 AND 50;
	
	Example of IN:
		SELECT * FROM students where ROLL_NO IN (8,15,25);
		
		
##	Q38. What is the need of MERGE statement?

-	This statement allows conditional update or insertion of data into a table.
-	It performs an UPDATE if a row exists, or an INSERT if the row does not exist.

##	Q41. What is the difference between ‘HAVING’ CLAUSE and a ‘WHERE’ CLAUSE?


-	HAVING clause can be used only with SELECT statement
-	It is usually used in a GROUP BY clause and whenever GROUP BY is used, HAVING behaves like a WHERE clause
-	Having Clause is only used with the GROUP BY function in a query 
-	WHERE Clause is applied to each row before they are a part of the GROUP BY function in a query.


##	Q43. What are the various levels of constraints?

-	column level constraint
-	table level constraint

##	Q44. How can you fetch common records from two tables?

-	You can fetch common records from two tables using INTERSECT


		Select studentID from student
		INTERSECT 
		Select StudentID from Exam
		
##	Q45. List some case manipulation functions in SQL?

-	LOWER(‘string’)
-	UPPER(‘string’)
-	INITCAP(‘string’)


##	 Q46. What are the different set operators available in SQL?

-	Union, Intersect or Minus operators.

##	Q47. What is an ALIAS command?

-	ALIAS name can be given to any table or a column. 
-	This alias name can be referred in WHERE clause to identify a particular table or a column.
	
	For example:

		Select emp.empID, dept.Result from employee emp, department as dept where emp.empID=dept.empID
		
-	In the above example, emp refers to alias name for employee table and dept refers to alias name for department table.


##	Q48. What are aggregate and scalar functions?

-	Aggregate functions are used to perform mathematical calculation and returns a single value.
-	These calculations are done from the columns in a table.
-	For example- max(),count() are calculated with respect to numeric.

-	Scalar functions return a single value based on the input value. For example – UCASE(), NOW() are calculated with respect to string.


##	Q53. What is the main difference between SQL and PL/SQL?

-	SQL is a query language that allows you to issue a single query or execute a single insert/update/delete 
-	PL/SQL is Oracle’s “Procedural Language” SQL, which allows you to write a full program (loops, variables, etc.) to accomplish multiple operations such as selects/inserts/updates/deletes


##	Q58. List all the types of user-defined functions?

-	Scalar Functions
-	Inline Table-valued functions
-	Multi-statement valued functions


##	Q61. What are Local and Global variables?

-	Local variables:
	-	These variables can be used or exist only inside the function
	- 	These variables are not used or referred by any other function

-	Global variables:
	-	These variables are the variables which can be accessed throughout the program
	- 	Global variables cannot be created whenever that function is called
	
	
##	Q65. What are STUFF and REPLACE function?

-	STUFF Function: This function is used to overwrite existing character or inserts a string into another string. Syntax:
		STUFF(string_expression,start, length, replacement_characters)
		
		where:
			string_expression: it is the string that will have characters substituted
			start: This refers to the starting position
			length: It refers to the number of characters in the string which are substituted.
			replacement_string: They are the new characters which are injected in the string.
 

-	REPLACE function: This function is used to replace the existing characters of all the occurrences. Syntax:
		
		REPLACE (string_expression, search_string, replacement_string)

-	Here every search_string in the string_expression will be replaced with the replacement_string.	



##	Question #3) What are different types of statements supported by SQL?

-	There are 3 types of SQL statements

-	1) DDL (Data Definition Language)
-	2) DML (Data Manipulation Language)
-	3) DCL (Data Control Language)

##	Question #5) What are different Clauses used in SQL?

-	 WHERE Clause: This clause is used to define the condition, extract and display only those records which fulfill the given condition
-	 GROUP BY Clause: It is used with SELECT statement to group the result of the executed query using the value specified in it. 
	-	It matches the value with the column name in tables and groups the end result accordingly.
	
-	 HAVING clause: This clause is used in association with the GROUP BY clause.
	-	It is applied to each group of result or the entire result as a single group and much similar as WHERE clause, the only difference is you cannot use it without GROUP BY clause
-	 ORDER BY clause: This clause is to define the order of the query output either in ascending (ASC) or in descending (DESC) order. 
	-	Ascending (ASC) is the default one but descending (DESC) is set explicitly.

-	 USING clause: USING clause comes in use while working with SQL Joins. 
	-	It is used to check equality based on columns when tables are joined. 
	-	It can be used instead ON clause in Joins.
	
##	 Question #6) Why do we use SQL constraints? Which constraints we can use while creating database in SQL?


-	Constraints are used to set the rules for all records in the table. 
-	If any constraints get violated then it can abort the action that caused it.
-	Constraints are defined while creating the database itself with CREATE TABLE statement or even after the table is created once with ALTER TABLE statement.
-	There are 5 major constraints are used in SQL, such as

	-	NOT NULL: That indicates that the column must have some value and cannot be left null
	-	UNIQUE: This constraint is used to ensure that each row and column has unique value and no value is being repeated in any other row or column
	-	PRIMARY KEY: This constraint is used in association with NOT NULL and UNIQUE constraints such as on one or the combination of more than one columns to identify the particular record with a unique identity.
	-	FOREIGN KEY: It is used to ensure the referential integrity of data in the table and also matches the value in one table with another using Primary Key
	-	CHECK: It is used to ensure whether the value in columns fulfills the specified condition

##	 Question #8) What are transaction and its controls?

-	A transaction can be defined as the sequence of task that is performed on databases in a logical manner to gain certain results. Operations performed like Creating, updating, deleting records in the database comes from transactions.

-	In simple word, we can say that a transaction means a group of SQL queries executed on database records.

-	There are 4 transaction controls such as

	-	COMMIT: It is used to save all changes made through the transaction
	-	ROLLBACK: It is used to roll back the transaction such as all changes made by the transaction are reverted back and database remains as before
	-	SET TRANSACTION: Set the name of transaction
	-	SAVEPOINT: It is used to set the point from where the transaction is to be rolled back

##	 Question #9) What are properties of the transaction?

-	Properties of transaction are known as ACID properties, such as

	-	Atomicity: Ensures the completeness of all transactions performed. Checks whether every transaction is completed successfully if not then transaction is aborted at the failure point and the previous transaction is rolled back to its initial state as changes undone
	-	Consistency: Ensures that all changes made through successful transaction are reflected properly on database
	-	Isolation: Ensures that all transactions are performed independently and changes made by one transaction are not reflected on other
	-	Durability: Ensures that the changes made in database with committed transactions persist as it is even after system failure

	
##	 Question #10) How many Aggregate Functions are available there in SQL?

-	SQL Aggregate Functions calculates values from multiple columns in a table and returns a single value.

	-	AVG(): Returns the average value from specified columns
	-	COUNT(): Returns number of table rows
	-	MAX(): Returns largest value among the records
	-	MIN(): Returns smallest value among the records
	-	SUM(): Returns the sum of specified column values
	-	FIRST(): Returns the first value
	-	LAST(): Returns Last value

##	 Question #11) What are Scalar Functions in SQL?

-	Scalar Functions are used to return a single value based on the input values. Scalar Functions are as follows

	-	UCASE(): Converts the specified field in upper case
	-	LCASE(): Converts the specified field in lower case
	-	MID(): Extracts and returns character from text field
	-	FORMAT(): Specifies the display format
	-	LEN(): Specifies the length of text field
	-	ROUND(): Rounds up the decimal field value to a number

##	 Question #14) How we can update the view?

-	SQL CREATE and REPLACE can be used for updating the view.

-	Following query syntax is to be executed to update the created view

		Syntax:
		
			CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW view_name AS
			  SELECT column_name(s)
			  FROM table_name
			  WHERE condition


##	Question #15) Explain the working of SQL Privileges?

-	SQL GRANT and REVOKE commands are used to implement privileges in SQL multiple user environments.
-  	The administrator of the database can grant or revoke privileges to or from users of database object like SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, ALL etc.

-	GRANT Command: This command is used provide database access to user apart from an administrator.

	Syntax: 
	
		GRANT privilege_name
		  ON object_name
		  TO {user_name|PUBLIC|role_name}
		  [WITH GRANT OPTION];

-	In above syntax WITH GRANT OPTIONS indicates that the user can grant the access to another user too.

-	REVOKE Command: This command is used provide database deny or remove access to database objects.

		Syntax: 
			
			REVOKE privilege_name
			  ON object_name
			  FROM {user_name|PUBLIC|role_name};


##	 Question #16) How many types of Privileges are available in SQL? 

-	There are two types of privileges used in SQL, such as

	-	System Privilege: 
		-	System privileges deal with an object of a particular type and specifies the right to perform one or more actions on it which include Admin allows a user to perform administrative tasks, ALTER ANY INDEX, ALTER ANY CACHE GROUP CREATE/ALTER/DELETE TABLE, CREATE/ALTER/DELETE VIEW etc.
	-	Object Privilege: 
		-	This allows to perform actions on an object or object of another user(s) viz. table, view, indexes etc.
		-	Some of the object privileges are EXECUTE, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, SELECT, FLUSH, LOAD, INDEX, REFERENCES etc.
		
##	 Question #17) What is SQL Injection?

-	SQL Injection is a type of database attack technique where malicious SQL statements are inserted into an entry field of database such that once it is executed the database is opened for an attacker. 
-	This technique is usually used for attacking Data-Driven Applications to have an access to sensitive data and perform administrative tasks on databases.

		For Example: SELECT column_name(s) FROM table_name WHERE condition;		



##	 Question #21) What is the use of NVL function?

-	NVL function is used to convert the null value to its actual value.


##	Q#54. What is identity in SQL?
-	 An identity column in the SQL automatically generates numeric values
- 	We can define a start and increment value of the identity column

##	Q#57. How to select random rows from a table? 

-	 Ans. Using a SAMPLE clause we can select random rows.

	Example:
		SELECT * FROM table_name SAMPLE(10);


##	Q#62. Give the order of SQL SELECT?
- 	Order of SQL SELECT clauses is: SELECT, FROM, WHERE, GROUP BY, HAVING, ORDER BY. 
	
		Only the SELECT and FROM clause are mandatory.

##	Q#63. Suppose a Student column has two columns, Name and Marks. How to get name and marks of the top three students.
- 	SELECT Name, Marks FROM Student s1 where 3 <= (SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Students s2 WHERE s1.marks = s2.marks)


##	Q#83. List the various privileges that a user can grant to another user?
- 	Ans.   SELECT, CONNECT, RESOURCES.
 
 
##	Q#80. Explain the difference between Rename and Alias?
-	Ans. Rename is a permanent name given to a table or column whereas Alias is a temporary name given to a table or column.

##	Q#77. What is Case Function? 
-	 Ans. Case facilitates if-then-else type of logic in SQL. It evaluates a list of conditions and returns one of the multiple possible result expressions.

##	Q#78. Define a temp table?
-	 Ans. A temp table is a temporary storage structure to store the data temporarily.

##	1.How to increase the speed of a stored procedure?

-	Insert SET NOCOUNT ON at the beginning of a stored procedure to suppress messages like 1 rows(s) affected whenever we execute statements like INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE
-	This reduces the network traffic and improves the performance of the stored procedure.


##	2. What is ACID property in a database?

-	ACID:

	-	ACID is a set of properties in the database that ensures that the transactions are processed reliably even in case of power failures or error events
	-	ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability
	-	When a sequence of database operations satisfies the ACID properties, they form a single logical operation and are considered as a transaction
	-	For example, transferring funds from one bank to another requires multiple changes but is considered as a single transaction.

-	Atomicity:

	-	Transaction follows all or nothing rule i.e. it either runs to completion or does not execute at all. 
	-	If one part of the transaction fails due to crashes, errors or power failure, then the entire transaction fails and the database remains in its original state. 
	-	A transaction is either committed or aborted, it does not occur partially.
	-	In case the transaction is committed changes are visible in the database. 
	-	In case it is aborted no changes are made to the database.

-	Consistency:
	-	This property ensures the correctness of the database. 
	-	The database remains consistent before and after the execution of the transaction.
	-	Integrity constraints are maintained and the changes made to the database are valid as per the defined rules.

Isolation: 
	-	This property ensures database consistency during concurrent execution of multiple transactions. 
	-	Transactions can occur independently in isolation without interfering in each other’s execution.
	-	When transactions execute concurrently the database will be in the same state as it would be if they were executed sequentially.

Durability: 
	-	This property ensures that once a transaction is committed, the updates in the database will be stored on the disk permanently
	-	It will persist even in case of system failure, crashes, errors or power loss.

The ACID properties basically provide a mechanism to ensure that the database is correct and consistent.


##	3. How to remove duplicate rows from the table?
-	We can delete duplicate rows from table using the concept of max (rowid) of table.

-	Step 1: Select rollno FROM Student WHERE ROWID <>

	-	(Select max (rowid) from Student b where rollno=b.rollno);

-	Step 2:  Delete duplicate rows

	-	Delete FROM Student WHERE ROWID <>(Select max (rowid) from Student b where rollno=b.rollno)
	
##	4. If you are a SQL Developer, how can you delete duplicate records in a table with no primary key?

-	We can delete the duplicate records in the table with no primary key by using the SET ROWCOUNT command. 
-	It limits the number of records affected by a command. 
-	For example, if you have 2 duplicate rows, you would SET ROWCOUNT 1, execute DELETE command and then SET ROWCOUNT 0

































	





	

		
 








































	





























