
# Oracle SQL Questions 
`
Table - EmployeeDetails
EmpId	FullName	ManagerId	DateOfJoining
121		John Snow		321		01/31/2014
321		Walter White	986		01/30/2015
421		Kuldeep Rana	876		27/11/2016


Table - EmployeeSalary
EmpId	Project	Salary
121	P1	8000
321	P2	1000
421	P1	12000
`


##	Ques.1. Write a SQL query to fetch the count of employees working in project 'P1'.


-	SELECT COUNT(*) FROM employees WHERE project= 'p1';

##	Ques.2. Write a SQL query to fetch employee names having salary greater than or equal to 5000 and less than or equal 10000.

-	SELECT names FROM employees WHERE salary>= 5000 AND salary<=10000;
-	SELECT names FROM employees WHERE salary BETWEEN '5000' AND '10000';

##	Ques.3. Write a SQL query to fetch project-wise count of employees sorted by project's count in descending order.

-	SELECT 	
		project_name, count(employeeId) emp_proj_count
	FROM 
		employees
	GROUP BY 
		project_name
	ORDER BY 	
		emp_proj_count DESC;
		
		
##	Ques.4. Write a query to fetch only the first name(string before space) from the FullName column of EmployeeDetails table.

-	In this question, we are required to first fetch the location of the space character in the FullName field and then extract the first name out of the FullName field. 
-	For finding the location we will use LOCATE method in mySQL 
-	And CHARINDEX in SQL SERVER and for fetching the string before space, we will use SUBSTRING OR MID method.


	Query:
	
		SELECT substring(fullname, 0, CHARINDEX('', fullname)) FROM EmployeeDetails;
		
		SELECT MID(FullName, 0, LOCATE(' ',FullName)) FROM EmployeeDetails;
						
		SELECT LEFT(FullName, CHARINDEX(' ',FullName) - 1) FROM EmployeeDetails;

		

##	Ques.5. Write a query to fetch employee names and salary records. Return employee details even if the salary record is not present for the employee.


	Query:
	
		SELECT E.fullname, S.salary FROM employeedetails E LEFT JOIN employeeSalary S 
		ON E.empid = S.empid;
		

		
##	Ques.6. Write a SQL query to fetch all the Employees who are also managers from EmployeeDetails table.
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT DISTINCT E.fullname 
		FROM employeedetails E INNER JOIN employeedetails M
		ON E.empid = M.managerid;



##	Ques.7. Write a SQL query to fetch all employee records from EmployeeDetails table who have a salary record in EmployeeSalary table.


-	Using 'Exists'-
	
		Query:
		
			SELECT * FROM EmployeeDetails E 
			WHERE EXISTS 
			(SELECT * FROM EmployeeSalary S WHERE  E.EmpId = S.EmpId);


##	Ques.8. Write a SQL query to fetch duplicate records from a table.

-	In order to find duplicate records from table we can use GROUP BY on all the fields 
- 	Then use HAVING clause to return only those fields whose count is greater than 1 i.e. the rows having duplicate records.


	Query:
	
		SELECT EmpId, Project, Salary, COUNT(*)
		FROM EmployeeSalary
		GROUP BY EmpId, Project, Salary
		HAVING COUNT(*) > 1;

##	Ques.9. Write a SQL query to remove duplicates from a table without using temporary table.

-	Using Group By and Having clause-

		DELETE FROM EmployeeSalary  
		WHERE EmpId IN (
		SELECT EmpId 
		FROM EmployeeSalary       
		GROUP BY Project, Salary
		HAVING COUNT(*) > 1));

-	Using rowId in Oracle-

		DELETE FROM EmployeeSalary
		WHERE rowid NOT IN
		(SELECT MAX(rowid) FROM EmployeeSalary GROUP BY EmpId);
		
		
##	Ques.12. Write a SQL query to create a new table with data and structure copied from another table.

-	Using SELECT INTO command-

		SELECT * INTO newTable FROM EmployeeDetails;


##	Ques.13. Write a SQL query to create an empty table with same structure as some other table.

	SELECT * INTO newTable FROM EmployeeDetails WHERE 1 = 0;
	
	CREATE TABLE newTable LIKE EmployeeDetails; 
	

##	Ques.14. Write a SQL query to fetch common records between two tables.


-	Using INTERSECT-

		SELECT * FROM EmployeeSalary
		INTERSECT
		SELECT * FROM ManagerSalary


##	Ques.15. Write a SQL query to fetch records that are present in one table but not in another table.
		
-	Using MINUS-

		SELECT * FROM EmployeeSalary
		MINUS
		SELECT * FROM ManagerSalary

##	Ques.16. Write a SQL query to find current date-time.

-	mySQL:

		SELECT NOW();

-	SQL Server:

		SELECT getdate();

-	Oracle:

		SELECT SYSDATE FROM DUAL;


##	Ques.17. Write a SQL query to fetch all the Employees details from EmployeeDetails table who joined in Year 2016.
	
-	Using BETWEEN for the date range '01-01-2016' AND '31-12-2016'-

		SELECT * FROM EmployeeDetails
		WHERE DateOfJoining BETWEEN '01-01-2016' AND date '31-12-2016';

-	Also, we can extract year part from the joining date (using YEAR in mySQL)-

		SELECT * FROM EmployeeDetails
		WHERE YEAR(DateOfJoining) = '2016';


##	Ques.18. Write a SQL query to fetch top n records?

-	In mySQL using LIMIT-

		SELECT * FROM EmployeeSalary ORDER BY Salary DESC LIMIT N

-	In SQL server using TOP command-

		SELECT TOP N * FROM EmployeeSalary ORDER BY Salary DESC

-	In Oracle using ROWNUM-

		SELECT * FROM (SELECT * FROM EmployeeSalary ORDER BY Salary DESC)
			WHERE ROWNUM <= 3;

##	Ques.19. Write SQL query to find the nth highest salary from table.
	
-	Using Top keyword (SQL Server)-

	Query:
	
		SELECT TOP 1 Salary
		FROM (
			  SELECT DISTINCT TOP N Salary
			  FROM Employee
			  ORDER BY Salary DESC
			  )
		ORDER BY Salary ASC

-	Using limit clause(mySQL)-
	
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT Salary FROM Employee ORDER BY Salary DESC LIMIT N-1,1;


##	Ques.20. Write SQL query to find the 3rd highest salary from table without using TOP/limit keyword.

-	The below SQL query make use of correlated subquery
-	Wherein in order to find the 3rd highest salary the inner query will return the count of till we find that there are two rows that salary greater than other distinct salaries.

		
		Query:
		
			SELECT Salary
			FROM EmployeeSalary Emp1
			WHERE 2 = (
							SELECT COUNT( DISTINCT ( Emp2.Salary ) )
							FROM EmployeeSalary Emp2
							WHERE Emp2.Salary > Emp1.Salary
						);
						

			For nth highest salary-
			SELECT Salary
			FROM EmployeeSalary Emp1
			WHERE N-1 = (
							SELECT COUNT( DISTINCT ( Emp2.Salary ) )
							FROM EmployeeSalary Emp2
							WHERE Emp2.Salary > Emp1.Salary
						)								

















































































































































	











