#	SQL Vs PL/SQL Vs T-SQL: Key Differences

-	SQL is the standard language to query a database.
-	PL SQL basically stands for "Procedural Language extensions to SQL." 
-	This is the extension of Structured Query Language (SQL) that is used in Oracle.
-	T-SQL basically stands for " Transact-SQL." This is the extension of Structured Query Language (SQL) that is used in Microsoft.


##	Difference between SQL and PL/SQL


-	SQL
	-	SQL is a single query that is used to perform DML and DDL operations
	-	It is declarative, that defines what need to be done, rather than how things need to be done.
	-	Execute as a single statement.
	-	Mainly used to manipulate data.
	-	Interaction with a Database server.
	-	Cannot contain PL/SQL code in it.


	


-	PL/SQL
	-	PL/SQL is a block of codes that used to write the entire program blocks/ procedure/ function, etc
	-	PL/SQL is procedural that defines how the things needs to be done.
	-	Execute as a whole block.
	-	Mainly used to create an application.
	-	No interaction with the database server.
	-	It is an extension of SQL, so that it can contain SQL inside it.

	
##	Difference Between T-SQL and PL-SQL

	
-	T-SQL
	-	T-SQL is a Microsoft product.
	-	Full Form of TL SQL is Transact Structure Query language.
	-	T-SQL gives a high degree of control to programmers.
	-	It is easy and simple to understand.
	-	T-SQL allows inserting multiples rows into a table using the BULK INSERT statement
	-	SELECT INTO statement is used in T-SQL

-	PL-SQL
	-	PL-SQL is developed by Oracle.
	-	Full Form of PL SQL is Procedural Language Structural Query Language.
	-	It is a natural programming language that blends easily with the SQL
	-	PL-SQL is complex to understand.
	-	PL/SQL supports oops concepts like data encapsulation, function overloading, and information hiding.
	-	INSERT INTO statement must be used in PL/SQL

	


-	

	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
