# Joins

-	Joins is used to fetch the data from multiple related tables that share common fields
-	Technically Joins are SQL operations which help us in retrieving data from two or more tables that share a common field.

##	Types of Joins

-	There several Types of Joins such as:

	-	Inner Join
	-	Outer Join
	-	Cross Join
	-	Self-Join

-	Outer Join can further be divided into 3 more categories:

	-	Right Outer Join
	-	Left Outer Join
	-	Full Outer Join

-	Apart from types of joins we also have two join conditions. 
	These are:
	-	Equi Joins
	-	Non-Equi Joins	
	
-	Equi Joins: 
	-	This type of Join looks for common records in two tables on the basis of equality condition and then combines them.
	-	Equi-Join is constructed with the help of equality operator (=) where the values of Primary key and Foreign key are compared.
	-	Hence the common or matching records from the two tables are presented in the result.
	
-	Non Equi Joins: 
	-	Here the equality operator is not used. 
	-	Instead operators such as <, >, BETWEEN etc. are employed.
	-	Therefore Non Equi-Join is the opposite of Equi-Join and uses joining conditions excluding equal operator. 
	-	For example, in a non Equi-Join condition you can use !=, <=,>=,<,> or BETWEEN etc. operators can be used for joining.
	
-	Outer Join: 
	-	Outer joins are the SQL operations which definitely return all the rows from Source table no matter whether there is a matching join condition hit or not.
	-	At the same time it returns only those rows of the target table that fulfills the matching join condition otherwise it just shows ‘null’ in the rows.	


