# Oracle SQL - Structured Query Langauage



## How to create and configure Database

-	Download the oracle and extact
-	Install using setup file
-	Oracle while installing, we can create a schema or database
	-	Update existing database
-	Create global admin user and password
-	Configure password for the users like sys, system, hr or some user accounts
-	Open command promt and enter into sqlplus mode, connect as a sysdba
		
		Command:
		
			sqlplus sys/oracle as sysdba
			select name from v$database; 
			
-	Manage Database server from Enterprise Manager from the GUI


## How to Install SQL Developer

-	SQL Developer is GUI based Client oracle Database server
-	Through SQL Developer we can manage the tables, execute query and do lot of things
-	Download and execute the exe file


## Creating a new Connection to Database 

-	We need to provide the user and password
-	URL and Port
-	SID - System Identifier
	-	We need to provide global Database name
	
	
		show user;
-	Show user will show to user that connected to database
-	Connecting to database from command promt
			
			
		sqlplus hr/hr
		sql> SHOW user;
		
			user is "HR"
			
		sqlplus /nolog
			SHOW user;
			user is ""
		
		sqlplus sysdba/oracle as sysdba@192.168.11.104/orcl
		sql>SHOW user;
			user is "sys"
		
		sql> select name from v$database;
			ORCL
			
##	How to Fetch Data using SELECT

-	SELECT [EXPRESSION] FROM TABLE;

## How to use Concatenation operator, character String

-	select sysdate || ' bharath'||' '||'the great'  emperor from dual;
-	
-	select concat('bharath', ' conquerer') as Conquerer from dual;


##	SQL DISTINCT keyword

-	Distinct keyword is used to fetch unique rows in the tables
-	Distinct is used to eliminate duplicates from the result

	Query:
	
		SELECT
			DISTINCT first_name, mid_name,last_name
		FROM
			users;

## How to List Tables Details of Database
	
-	Tables details can be listed from:
	-	USER_TABLES
	-	DBA_TABLES
	-	ALL_TABLES
	
	Query:
	
		SELECT 
			table_name,owner
		FROM
			user_tables
		WHERE 
			owner = 'EPWF'
		ORDER BY
			table_name,owner;
			
		
		SELECT 
		  table_name, owner
		FROM
		  all_tables
		WHERE
		  OWNER LIKE 'EPWF%'
		ORDER BY
		  owner, table_name;
		  
		 SELECT
		  table_name, owner
		FROM
		  dba_tables
		ORDER BY
		  owner, table_name;
		  
		  
##	Single Row Functions

-	Operate on one row at a time and return one row of output for each input row.
-	Single row functions are capable of manipulating data items and modifying the data types. 
-	Single row functions return one result per row and act on each row that is returned.
-	Single row functions can accept one or more arguments and return one value.
	-	These arguments can be a column or an expression.

-	With oracle we have 5 types of Single Row Functions 
	-	1. Character Functions
	-	2. Number Functions
	-	3. General Functions
	-	4. Conversion Functions and
	-	5. Date Functions.
-	Character Functions are further divided into two categories.
	-	1st is Case- manipulation functions  
	-	2nd is Character Manipulation functions
 
-	We have 3 case manipulation functions:
		-	Upper (): This function takes a parameter converts it into uppercase and returns the new string.
		-	Initcap ():  this function also takes parameter and converts the initial letter of or parameter into uppercase and returns the new string.
		-	Lower (): This function takes a parameter converts it into lowercase and returns the new string.
-	 7 Character manipulation functions Sql functions 
		-	concat 
		-	substr
		-	length 
		-	instr
		-	lpad
		-	rpad 
		-	trim 
		-	replace
		
	Query:

		SELECT 
		  substr(job_class_nm, 30, length(job_class_nm))
		FROM
		  qrtz_job;
	

	
##	SQL Concat Function

-	As the name suggests SQL Concat () function concatenates or combines two separate character strings and returns a single character strings.
-	Syntax:  
	
		CONCAT (string_1, String_2)	]
		

-	In oracle, the SQL Concat () function takes only two arguments. 
-	These arguments can be of any data-types CHAR, VARCHAR2, NCHAR, NVARCHAR, and CLOB or NLOB
-	 You can even specify the columns of the table here.

-	Is SQL concat function equivalent to SQL concat operator? Yes
	-	While SQL concat function takes only two parameters, SQL concat operator can be repeated as often as is necessary.

-	what is the difference between SQL concat function and SQL concatenation operator?

	-	With SQL concatenation operator you can combine as many strings as you want

-	How to combine more than two strings using SQL concat function?
	
		SELECT 
		   CONCAT(CONCAT(CONCAT(CONCAT( 
		   CONCAT(CONCAT(CONCAT 
		   (‘Hi!’,”),’How’),’ ‘),’are’),’ ‘),’You’),’?’)
				FROM dual;
	
		“Hi! How are you?”

-	this task can be achieved much easily if you use SQL concatenation operator.

## SQL SUBSTR Function

-	SQL Substr function is the second character manipulation function in the hierarchy
-	As the name suggests SQL Substr function will return a substring from a given source string
-	Syntax of SQL SUBSTR ( ) Function
	
		Substr ( source_string, start_pos, Substr_length )

-	 These three parameters are:

		-	Source_String: Source string is the string from which you want to extract the segment.
		-	Starting_Pos: start_pos is the Starting position sub-string from the source string.
		-	Substr_length: substr_length is the length of the substring.

-	First parameter which is the source string can be of any data type
		
		CHAR, VARCHAR2, NCHAR, NVARCHAR2, CLOB, or NCLOB whereas the other two parameters that are start_pos and Substr_length must be of number data type.
		
-	The returning result of SQL Substr ( ) function is of the same data type as that of the source string.
-	Examples of SQL Substr ( ) Function:
	
	-	SQL> SELECT substr (‘www.RebellionRider.com’, 5, 14) FROM dual;
	-	SELECT substr( ‘www.RebellionRider.com’, 23, 14 ) FROM dual;
	-	SELECT substr( ‘www.RebellionRider.com’, 5, 23 ) FROM dual;
	-	SELECT substr( 50000-7, 2, 4 ) FROM dual;
	-	SELECT Substr ( sysdate, 4, 3) FROM dual;
	-	SELECT substr( ‘www.RebellionRider.com’, 0, 14 ) FROM dual;
	-	SELECT substr( ‘www.RebellionRider.com’, -9, 5 ) FROM dual;
	-	SELECT substr( ‘www.RebellionRider.com’, 5 ) FROM dual;

		-	The third argument of SQL Substr function which is Substr_length (sub string length).
		-	In this case oracle engine will start searching substring from the specified position which is 5 in our query and all the characters from that position onward till the end are extracted, yielding the substring “RebellionRider.com”
	




	




























	



