#	MySQL Functions & Procedures:String, Numeric, Userdefined, Stored

## What are functions?

-	Functions are used to perform manipulations on the data before retrieving or saving it
-	Functions are simply pieces of code that perform some operations and then return a result. 
-	Some functions accept parameters while other functions do not accept parameters

-	By default, MySQL saves date data types in the format "YYYY-MM-DD". 
-	Suppose we have built an application and our users want the date to be returned in the format "DD-MM-YYYY",
-	we can use MySQL built in function DATE_FORMAT to achieve this.
-	DATE_FORMAT is one of the most used functions in MySQL



## 	Why use functions?

-	Reduces re-work in the business logic and reduce data inconsistencies
	-	This becomes a problem when the application has to integrate with other systems. 
	-	When we use MySQL functions such as the DATE_FORMAT, then we can have that functionality embedded into the database and any application that needs the data gets it in the required format.
	-	 This reduces re-work in the business logic and reduce data inconsistencies.


-	MySQL functions is the fact that it can help reducing network traffic in client/server applications. 
	-	Business Layer will only need to make call to the stored functions without the need manipulate data .
	-	On average, the use of functions can help greatly improve overall system performance
	
	
##	Types of functions

-	Built-in functions
	-	Strings functions - operate on string data types
	-	Numeric functions - operate on numeric data types
	-	Date functions - operate on date data types
	-	Aggregate functions - operate on all of the above data types and produce summarized result sets.
	-	Other functions - MySQL also supports other types of built in functions 
-	User-defined functions

##	String functions

	-	SELECT `movie_id`,`title`, UCASE(`title`)  FROM `movies`;
	
		-	UCASE(`title`) is the built in function that takes the title as a parameter and returns it in upper case letters with the alias name `upper_case_title`.
		
## 	Numeric functions
	-	Arithematic operators

		-	DIV

			-	Integer division
			-	SELECT 23 DIV 6 ;
			-	Executing the above script gives us the following results: 3


		-	/

			-	Division
			-	SELECT 23 / 6 ;
			-	Executing the above script gives us the following results.

		-

			-	Subtraction
			-	SELECT 23 - 6 ;
			-	Executing the above script gives us 17

		-	+

			-	Addition
			-	SELECT 23 + 6 ;
			-	Executing the above script gives us 29

		-	*

			-	Multiplication
			-	SELECT 23 * 6 AS `multiplication_result`;
			-	Executing the above script gives us the following results.

					multiplication_result

						138

		-	% or MOD

			-	Modulus
			-	SELECT 23 % 6 ;
			-	SELECT 23 MOD 6 ;
			-	Executing the above script gives us  5
		
		-	Floor 
			-	Floor - this function removes decimals places from a number and rounds it to the nearest lowest number
			-	SELECT FLOOR(23 / 6) AS `floor_result`;
			-	Executing the above script gives us the following results.

					Floor_result

						3

		-	Round 		
			-	 this function rounds a number with decimal places to the nearest whole number
			-	SELECT ROUND(23 / 6) AS `round_result`;
			-	Executing the above script gives us the following results.

					Round_result

						4

		-	Rand 
			-	this function is used to generate a random number, its value changes every time that the function is called
			-	SELECT RAND() AS `random_result`;

			

##	Stored functions

-	Stored functions are just like built in functions except that user have to define the stored function yourself.
-	Once a stored function has been created, it can be used in SQL statements just like any other function. 
-	The basic syntax for creating a stored function is as shown below
		
		Syntax:
		
			CREATE FUNCTION sf_name ([parameter(s)])
			   RETURNS data type
			   DETERMINISTIC
			   STATEMENTS
			   
		-	"CREATE FUNCTION sf_name ([parameter(s)]) " is mandatory and tells MySQL server to create a function named `sf_name' with optional parameters defined in the parenthesis.
		-	"RETURNS data type" is mandatory and specifies the data type that the function should return.
		-	"DETERMINISTIC" means the function will return the same values if the same arguments are supplied to it.
		-	"STATEMENTS" is the procedural code that the function executes.	   
		
		Syntax:
		
			DELIMITER |
			CREATE FUNCTION sf_past_movie_return_date (return_date DATE)
			  RETURNS VARCHAR(3)
			   DETERMINISTIC
				BEGIN
				 DECLARE sf_value VARCHAR(3);
					IF curdate() > return_date
						THEN SET sf_value = 'Yes';
					ELSEIF  curdate() <= return_date
						THEN SET sf_value = 'No';
					END IF;
				 RETURN sf_value;
				END|

		Query:
		
			SELECT `movie_id`,`membership_number`,`return_date`,CURDATE() ,sf_past_movie_return_date(`return_date`)  FROM `movierentals`;

			
##	User-defined functions

-	MySQL also supports user defined functions that extend MySQL. 
-	User defined functions are functions that you can create using a programming language such as C, C++ etc. and then add them to MySQL server.
-	Once added, they can be used just like any other function.

