#	MySQL Aggregate Functions Tutorial : SUM, AVG, MAX, MIN , COUNT, DISTINCT

-	 All aggregate functions by default exclude nulls values before working on the data.

-	Aggregate Functions are all about:

	-	Performing  calculations on multiple rows
	-	Of a single column of a table
	-	And returning a single value
		
-	The ISO standard defines five (5) aggregate functions namely;

	-	1) COUNT
	-	2) SUM
	-	3) AVG
	-	4) MIN
	-	5) MAX 
	
	
##	Why use aggregate functions.

-	Aggregate functions allow us to easily produce summarized data from our database
-	From a business perspective, different organization levels have different information requirements. 
-	Top levels managers are usually interested in knowing whole figures and not necessary the individual details. 


##	COUNT Function

-	 All aggregate functions by default exclude nulls values before working on the data.
-	The COUNT function returns the total number of values in the specified field. 
-	It works on both numeric and non-numeric data types.
-	COUNT (*) is a special implementation of the COUNT function that returns the count of all the rows in a specified table. 
-	COUNT (*) also considers Nulls and duplicates.


	SELECT COUNT(`movie_id`)  FROM `movierentals` WHERE `movie_id` = 2;

##	DISTINCT Keyword

-	The DISTINCT keyword that allows us to omit duplicates from our results.
-	This is achieved by grouping similar values together .

	SELECT DISTINCT `movie_id` FROM `movierentals`;

	
##	MIN function

		SELECT MIN(`year_released`) FROM `movies`;

##	MAX function
		SELECT MAX(`year_released`)  FROM `movies`;
	
##	SUM function
		SELECT SUM(`amount_paid`) FROM `payments`;

		
##	AVG function
		SELECT AVG(`amount_paid`)  FROM `payments`;
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	




	