#	MySQL IS NULL & IS NOT NULL Tutorial with EXAMPLES

-	In SQL Null is both a value as well as a keyword

##	Null as a Value

-	NULL is simply a place holder for data that does not exist. 
-	When performing insert operations on tables, they will be times when some  field values will not be available. 
-	NULL is not a data type - this means it is not recognized as an "int", "date" or any other defined data type.
	-	Does not belong to any datatype
-	Arithmetic operations involving NULL always return NULL for example, 69 + NULL = NULL.
-	All aggregate functions affect only rows that do not have NULL values.



##	What is NOT?

-	The NOT logical operator is used to test for Boolean conditions and returns true if the condition is false
-	The NOT operator returns false if the condition been tested is true

##	Why use NOT null?

-	There will be cases when we will have to perform computations on a query result set and return the values. 
-	Performing any arithmetic operations on columns that have the NULL value returns null results.
-	In order to avoid such situations from happening, we can employ the use of the NOT NULL clause to limit the results on which our data operates.



##	NOT NULL Values or Clause with Creating tables

-	We can use the NOT NULL clause on a given field when creating the table
-	We want to create a table with certain fields that should always be supplied with values when inserting new rows in a table


		Query:
		
			CREATE TABLE `employees`(
			  employee_number int NOT NULL,
			  full_names varchar(255) ,
			  gender varchar(6)
			);
			
-	The employee number should always be supplied		



##	NULL Keywords

-	"IS NULL" is the keyword that performs the Boolean comparison. 
	-	It returns true if the supplied value is NULL and false if the supplied value is not NULL.
-	"NOT NULL" is the keyword that performs the Boolean comparison. 
	-	It returns true if the supplied value is not NULL and false if the supplied value is null.		
	
	
		`comlumn_name'  IS NULL
		`comlumn_name' NOT NULL
		
	SELECT * FROM `members` WHERE contact_number IS NOT NULL;



##	Comparing null values


-	Three-value logic - performing Boolean operations on conditions that involve NULL can either return "Unknown", "True" or "False".
-	using the "IS NULL" keyword when doing comparison operations involving NULL can either return true or false.
-	Using other comparison operators returns "Unknown"(NULL).	

		SELECT 5 =5;1
		SELECT NULL = NULL; NULL = NULL --> NULL
		SELECT 5 > 5; 0
		SELECT NULL > NULL; NULL
		SELECT 5 IS NULL; 0
		SELECT NULL IS NULL; 1

##	Summary
-	NULL is a value place holder for optional table fields.
-	MySQL treats the NULL value differently from other data types. 
	-	The NULL values when used in a condition evaluates to the false Boolean value.
-	The NOT logical operate is used to test for Boolean values and evaluates to true if the Boolean value is false and false if the Boolean value is true.
-	The NOT NULL clause is used to eliminate NULL values from a result set
-	Performing arithmetic operations on NULL values always returns NULL results.
-	The comparison operators such as [, =, etc.] cannot be used to compare NULL values.





























		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
