#	MySQL AUTO_INCREMENT with Examples

Auto increment attribute when specified on a column with a numeric data types, generates numbers sequentially whenever a new row is added into the database.

##	What is auto increment?


-	Auto Increment is a function that operates on numeric data types. 
-	It automatically generates sequential numeric values every time that a record is inserted into a table for a field defined as auto increment.
-	Auto increment attribute when specified on a column with a numeric data types, generates numbers sequentially whenever a new row is added into the database.

##	When use auto increment?

-	database normalization,  how data can be stored with minimal redundancy, by storing data into many small tables ,related to each other using primary and foreign keys.

-	A primary key must be unique as it uniquely identifies a row in a database
-	Auto increment feature to generate primary keys
-	The Auto increment is commonly used to generate primary keys.
-	It is considered a good practice to specify the unsigned constraint on auto increment primary keys to avoid having negative numbers.
-	By default, the starting value for AUTO_INCREMENT is 1, and it will increment by 1 for each new record
-	To let AUTO_INCREMENT sequence start with another value , use AUTO_INCREMENT = 10

	
	
##	Auto increment syntax

-	By default, the starting value for AUTO_INCREMENT is 1, and it will increment by 1 for each new record
-	This causes the category Id to be automatically generated every time a new row is inserted into the table.
-	If it is not supplied when inserting data into the table, MySQL generates it.


	Syntax:
	
		CREATE TABLE `categories` (
		  `category_id` int(11) AUTO_INCREMENT,
		  `category_name` varchar(150) DEFAULT NULL,
		  `remarks` varchar(500) DEFAULT NULL,
		  PRIMARY KEY (`category_id`)
		);
		
	Queries:

		SELECT * FROM `categories`;
		INSERT INTO  `categories` (`category_name`) VALUES ('Cartoons');
		SELECT LAST_INSERT_ID();

	
##	Summary


-	Auto increment attribute when specified on a column with a numeric data types, generates numbers sequentially whenever a new row is added into the database.
-	The Auto increment is commonly used to generate primary keys.
-	The defined data type on the Auto increment should be large enough to accommodate many records. Defining TINYINT as the data type for an auto increment field limits the number of records that can be added to the table to 255 only since any values beyond that would not be accepted by the TINYINT data type.
-	It is considered a good practice to specify the unsigned constraint on auto increment primary keys to avoid having negative numbers.
When a row is deleted from a table, its auto incremented id is not re-used. MySQL continues generating new numbers sequentially.
By default, the starting value for AUTO_INCREMENT is 1, and it will increment by 1 for each new record
To let AUTO_INCREMENT sequence start with another value , use AUTO_INCREMENT = 10
