#	MYSQL - ALTER, DROP, RENAME, MODIFY

-	The alter command is used when we want to modify a database or any object contained in the database.
-	The drop command is used to delete databases from MySQL server or objects within a database.
-	The rename command is used to change the name of a table to a new table name.
-	The Change keyword allows you to change a column name , data type and constraints
-	The Modify Keyword allows you to modify a column data type and constraints
-	The After keyword is used to specify position of a column in a table



##	WHAT IS THE ALTER COMMAND?

-	ALTER function that helps us incorporate the changes to the already existing database design.
-	The alter command is used to modify an existing database, table, view or other database objects that might need to change during the life cycle of a database.

	Syntax:
	
		ALTER TABLE `table_name` ADD COLUMN `column_name` `data_type`;
		
	Queries:
		
		ALTER TABLE `members` ADD COLUMN `credit_card_number` VARCHAR(25);
		SHOW COLUMNS FROM `members`;
		

##	WHAT IS THE DROP COMMAND?

-	The DROP command is used to

	-	Delete a database from MySQL server
	-	Delete an object (like Table , Column)from a database.
	
		Queries:	
		
			ALTER TABLE `members` DROP COLUMN `credit_card_number`;
			DROP TABLE `sample_table`;
			DROP TABLE `categories_archive`;

			
##	WHAT IS THE RENAME COMMAND?


-	The rename command is used to change the name of an existing database object(like Table,Column) to a new name.
	
		Queries:	
		
			RENAME TABLE `current_table_name` TO `new_table_name`;
			RENAME TABLE `movierentals` TO `movie_rentals`;

			
##	CHANGE KEYWORD


-	Change Name of Column
-	Change Column Data Type
-	Change Column Constraints	


-	Suppose we want to

	-	Change the field name from "full_names" to "fullname
	-	Change it to char data type with a width of 250
	-	Add a NOT NULL constraint
	-	We can accomplish this using the change command as follows -

	
	
			ALTER TABLE `members` CHANGE COLUMN `full_names` `fullname` char(250) NOT NULL;	

##	MODIFY KEYWORD

-	The MODIFY Keyword allows you to

	-	Modify Column Data Type
	-	Modify Column Constraints
	
	
			ALTER TABLE `members`MODIFY `fullname` char(50) NOT NULL;

##	AFTER KEYWORD
-	Suppose that we want to add a new column at a specific position in the  table.

	-	We can use the alter command together with the AFTER keyword.
	-	The script below adds "date_of_registration" just after the date of birth in the members table.
	-	ALTER TABLE  `members` ADD  `date_of_registration` date NULL AFTER  `date_of_birth`;


































































































































































	
