#	MySQL JOINS Tutorial: INNER, OUTER, LEFT, RIGHT, CROSS

## 	What are JOINS?

-	Joins help retrieving data from two or more database tables. 
-	The tables are mutually related using primary and foreign keys.


##	Types of joins


-	Cross JOIN
-	Cross JOIN is a simplest form of JOINs which matches each row from one database table to all rows of another.
-	In other words it gives us combinations of each row of first table with all records in second table.

	Query:
	
	
		SELECT * FROM `movies` CROSS JOIN `members`

	
##	INNER JOIN

-	The inner JOIN is used to return rows from both tables that satisfy the given condition.
-	Suppose , you want to get list of members who have rented movies together with titles of movies rented by them. 
-	You can simply use an INNER JOIN for that, which returns rows from both tables that satisfy with given conditions.

	Query:

		SELECT members.`first_name` , members.`last_name` , movies.`title`
		FROM members ,movies
		WHERE movies.`id` = members.`movie_id`

##	Outer JOINs

-	MySQL Outer JOINs return all records matching from both tables .

-	LEFT JOIN
-	RIGHT JOIN
	
##	"ON" and "USING" clauses




##	Summary


-	JOINS allow us to combine data from more than one table into a single result set.
-	JOINS have better performance compared to sub queries
-	INNER JOINS only return rows that meet the given criteria.
-	OUTER JOINS can also return rows where no matches have been found. The unmatched rows are returned with the NULL keyword.
-	The major JOIN types include Inner, Left Outer, Right Outer, Cross JOINS etc.
-	The frequently used clause in JOIN operations is "ON". "USING" clause requires that matching columns be of the same name.
-	JOINS can also be used in other clauses such as GROUP BY, WHERE, SUB QUERIES, AGGREGATE FUNCTIONS etc.	