#	Views in MySQL Tutorial: Create, Join & Drop with Examples


##	What are views?

-	VIEWS are virtual tables.
-	By virtual the tables do not store any data of their own but display data stored in other tables.
-	In other words, VIEWS are nothing but SELECT Queries.

	Views syntax:
	
		CREATE VIEW `view_name` AS SELECT statement;
	
	Query:
	
		CREATE VIEW `accounts_v_members` AS SELECT `membership_number`,`full_names`,`gender` FROM `members`;
		
		SELECT * FROM `accounts_v_members`;

-	If we want to see the SQL statements that make up a particular view, we can use the script shown below to do that.
		
	
	Query:
	
		SHOW CREATE VIEW `accounts_v_members`;
		
		
##	Joins and views

	Query:
	
		CREATE VIEW `general_v_movie_rentals` AS SELECT mb.`membership_number`,mb.`full_names`,mo.`title`,mr.`transaction_date`,mr.`return_date` FROM `movierentals` AS mr INNER JOIN `members` AS mb ON mr.`membership_number` = mb.`membership_number` INNER JOIN `movies` AS mo ON mr.`movie_id` = mo.`movie_id`;
		
		
		SELECT * FROM `general_v_movie_rentals`;

		
##	Dropping views

	Query:
	
		DROP VIEW ` general_v_movie_rentals `;

		
##	Summary

-	Views are virtual tables; they do not contain the data that is returned. The data is stored in the tables referenced in the SELECT statement.
-	Views improve security of the database by showing only intended data to authorized users. They hide sensitive data.
-	Views make life easy as you do not have write complex queries time and again.
-	It's possible to use INSERT, UPDATE  and DELETE on a VIEW. These operations will change the underlying tables of the VIEW.  The only consideration is that VIEW should contain all NOT NULL columns of the tables it references. Ideally, you should not use VIEWS for updating.		
			
		
		