#	MySQL Index Tutorial - Create, Add & Drop


##	What are Index?

-	The slowness in the response time is usually due to the records being stored randomly in database tables.
-	Search queries have to loop through the entire randomly stored records one after the other to locate the desired data.
-	This results in poor performance databases when it comes to retrieving data from large tables
-	Indexes come in handy in such situations. Indexes sort data in an organized sequential way.Think of an index as an alphabetically sorted list. It is easier to lookup names that have been sorted in alphabetical order than ones that are not sorted.
-	INDEX's are created on the column(s) that will be used to filter the data.
-	Using indexes on tables that are frequently updated can result in poor performance. This is because MySQL creates a new index block every time that data is added or updated in the table. Generally, indexes should be used on tables whose data does not change frequently but is used a lot in select search queries.


##	Create index basic syntax

-	1.  At the time of table creation
-	2.  After table has been created


	Query:
	
		CREATE TABLE `members_indexed` (
		  `membership_number` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
		  `full_names` varchar(150) DEFAULT NULL,
		  `gender` varchar(6) DEFAULT NULL,
		  `date_of_birth` date DEFAULT NULL,
		  `physical_address` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
		  `postal_address` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
		  `contact_number` varchar(75) DEFAULT NULL,
		  `email` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
		  PRIMARY KEY (`membership_number`),INDEX(full_names)
		) ENGINE=InnoDB;
		
		
		
		
##	Add index basic syntax

	Syntax:
	
		CREATE INDEX id_index ON table_name(column_name);
		
	Query:
	
		CREATE INDEX `title_index` ON `movies`(`title`);
		
		SHOW INDEXES FROM table_name;
		SHOW INDEXES FROM `movies`;
		
##	Drop index basic syntax
		
		DROP INDEX `index_id` ON `table_name`;
		DROP INDEX ` full_names` ON `members_indexed`;

		
##	Summary
-	Indexes are very powerful when it comes to greatly improving the performance of MySQL search queries.
-	Indexes can be defined when creating a table or added later on after the table has already been created.
-	You can define indexes on more than one column on a table.
-	The SHOW INDEX FROM table_name is used to display the defined indexes on a table.
-	The DROP command is used to remove a defined index on a given table.
 		


	
		