#	SQL vs MySQL: What's the Difference?


##	What is SQL?

-	SQL is a language which is used to operate your database.
-	SQL is the basic language used for all the databases.
-	There are minor syntax changes amongst different databases, but the basic SQL syntax remains largely the same.
- 	SQL is a short abbreviation of Structured Query Language.
- 	According to ANSI (American National Standards Institute), SQL is the standard language to operate a relational database management system

-	SQL is used in the accessing, updating, and manipulation of data in a database.
- 	Its design allows for the management of data in an RDBMS, such as MYSQL. 
-	SQL language also used for controlling data access and for creation and modification of Database schemas.

##	What is MYSQL?

-	MySQL was one of the first open-source database available in the market
-	MySQL is an RDBMS that allows keeping the data that exists in a database organized
-	MySQL provides a multi-user access to databases
-	MySQL uses the SQL language to query the database


##	Difference between SQL and MySQL


###	SQL

-	SQL is a Structured Query Language. It is useful to manage relational databases.
-	You need to learn the SQL language to use it effectively.	
-	SQL is a query language.	
-	SQL does not provide connectors.	
-	To query and operate database system.	
-	SQL code and commands are used in various DBMS and RDMS systems including MYSQL.	


###	MYSQL

-	MySQL is an RDBMS tostore, retrieve, modify and administrate a database usingSQL.
-	It is readily available through download and installation.
-	MySQL is database software. It used "SQL" language to query the database.
-	MySQL offers an integrated tool called 'MySQL workbench' to design and develop databases.
-	Allows data handling, storing, modifying, deleting in a tabular format.
-	MYSQL is used as an RDBMS database.



##	Conclusion:

-	SQL is a language which is used to operate your database
-	MySQL was one of the first open-source database available in the market
-	SQL is used in the accessing, updating, and manipulation of data in a database
-	MySQL is an RDBMS that allows keeping the data that exists in a database organized
-	SQL is a Structured Query Language
-	MySQL is a RDBMS to store, retrieve, modify and administrate a database using MYSQL
-	SQL is a query language while MYSQL is database software
