#	How To Unlock User Or Schema In Oracle Database


-	Set ORACLE_SID=orcl
-	SQLPLUS sys/oracle AS sysdba
-	ALTER USER username IDENTIFIED BY password ACCOUNT unlock;
-	ALTER USER hr IDENTIFIED BY hr ACCOUNT unlock;

##	User Privileges
-A user privilege is the right to run a particular type of SQL statement, or the right to access an object that belongs to another user, run a PL/SQL package, and so on.
-	every user in oracle database needs some rights to perform any task
-	These tasks can be anything, for example to execute any SQL statement or to access the objects owned by any other user or to run any PL/SQL package and many more
-	There are two types of user privileges in Oracle Database.

	-	System Privilege and
	-	Object Privilege
	
-	System Privilege
		-	System privileges are some powerful special rights given to a user to perform standard administrator tasks in the database.
		-	These tasks can be any action on any schema objects for example create and drop a user or tablespace, flashback or lock any table and export as well as import the database and many more

-	Object Privilege
	-	Object privileges are the rights given to a user to access and perform some actions on the database objects or the objects owned by some other user in the database.
	-	By objects I mean tables, views, sequences, procedures etc. and by Action I mean Alter, Delete, Execute, Select, Update, References, Insert and Index

##	How to Grant and Revoke the user privileges

-	To assign and deny the user privilege we have two Data control language (DCL) statements in Oracle database. 
	-	Grant and
	-	Revoke
	
-	Who Can Grant or Revoke System Privileges?
	-	The most powerful administrative user in the database sys can grant and revoke any privilege from any user in the database.
	-	A user with the system privilege GRANT ANY PRIVILEGE and
	-	Any user who was granted a specific system privilege with the ADMIN OPTION
	
	
